Microsoft basic display adapter in Windows | Microsoft Support Skip to main content Microsoft Support Support Support Home Microsoft 365 Office Products Microsoft 365 Outlook Microsoft Teams OneDrive Microsoft Copilot OneNote Windows more ... Devices Surface PC Accessories Xbox PC Gaming HoloLens Surface Hub Hardware warranties Account & billing Resources Community forums Microsoft 365 Admins Developer Education Report a support scam Product safety More Buy Microsoft 365 All Microsoft Global Microsoft 365 Azure Copilot Windows Surface XBOX Deals Small Business Support Software Software Windows Apps Outlook OneDrive Microsoft Teams OneNote Microsoft Edge Moving from Skype to Teams PCs & Devices PCs & Devices Computers Shop XBOX Accessories VR & mixed reality Certified Refurbished Trade-in for cash Entertainment Entertainment XBOX Game Pass Ultimate PC Game Pass XBOX games PC games Business Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 for business Microsoft Power Platform Windows 365 Small Business Digital Sovereignty Developer & IT Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Other Other Microsoft Rewards Free downloads & security Education Gift cards Licensing Unlocked stories View Sitemap Search Search for help No results Cancel Sign in Sign in with Microsoft Sign in or create an account. Hello, Select a different account. You have multiple accounts Choose the account you want to sign in with. Related topics Related topics × All about hardware in Windows Common PC and device terms All about computer memory All about device screens and displays All about graphics processing units (GPUs) All about neural processing units (NPUs) All about processors (CPUs) All about SSD, HDD, and storage types Add and remove hardware Add a hardware device to a Windows device Safely remove hardware in Windows Bluetooth Check if a Windows 11 device supports Bluetooth Low Energy Audio Connect to a Bluetooth network in Windows How to find Bluetooth settings in Windows Pair a Bluetooth device in Windows Send and receive files over Bluetooth in Windows Supported Bluetooth profiles Turn Bluetooth on or off in Windows What Bluetooth version is on a Windows device Camera Manage app permissions for a camera in Windows Windows Studio Effects Drivers Automatically get recommended and updated hardware drivers Microsoft Basic Display Adapter in Windows Keyboard Get to know the touch keyboard Windows keyboard tips and tricks Mouse and Pen Change mouse settings Use a pen with Windows Printers and Scanners Add or install a printer in Windows How to download and install the latest printer drivers Install and use a scanner in Windows Set a default printer in Windows Share a printer as a network printer View a printer's print queue in Windows Processors 32-bit and 64-bit Windows Frequently asked questions Find out how many cores a processor on a Windows device has Windows Arm-based PCs FAQ Touch Enable and disable the touch keyboard in Windows Enable and disable the virtual touchpad in Windows Enable and disable a touchscreen in Windows Fix touchpad problems in Windows Touch gestures for Windows What to try if a touchscreen doesn't work in Windows Microsoft basic display adapter in Windows Applies To Windows 11 Windows 10 Get help with Copilot How can I update the Microsoft basic display adapter? What if I can't use a baum braille display with narrator? Can I set up Microsoft basic display adapter to use? Summary The Microsoft basic display adapter is a generic display adapter driver that's built into Windows that provides basic display and graphics capabilities. A driver is a piece of software that allows a hardware device to communicate with Windows. The Microsoft Basic Display Adapter is used when a driver made specifically for the display adapter by the manufacturer isn't available or installed. To get the best experience from a Windows device, it's best to install a driver from the display adapter manufacturer. Display adapter drivers from the manufacturer often feature: Faster performance. Smoother video playback. Higher screen resolutions. Improved battery life. Support for multiple monitors. Additional graphical features. Better stability. Many times, a display driver is available in Windows out of the box and installs via Windows Setup when Windows is first installed. Other times display adapter drivers, including updated display adapter drivers, are available from Windows Update. However, other times drivers might either not get installed right away or might only be available directly from the display adapter manufacturer's website. To determine if the Microsoft Basic Display Adapter is being used on a Windows device, select one of the following two methods: Device Manager On the Windows device, right-click on the Start menu and then select Device Manager . In the Device Manager window that opens, select the arrow next to Display adapters to expand the Display adapters node. If Microsoft Basic Display Adapter is listed under the Display adapters node, then the generic Microsoft Basic Display Adapter driver is being used instead of a manufacturer specific driver. Microsoft recommends updating to the manufacturer specific display adapter driver. For more information, see the section Update the Microsoft Basic Display Adapter to use the manufacturer's display adapter driver in this article. Note If multiple items are listed under the Display adapters node in Device Manager , it's possible that the Windows device might have multiple display adapters. Each item represents a different display adapter. It's possible that some display adapters are using the manufacturer's driver, while are using the generic Microsoft Basic Display Adapter driver. DirectX Diagnostic Tool On the Windows device, right-click on the Start menu and then select Run . In the Run window that opens, next to Open: enter in: dxdiag.exe and then select the OK button. When the DirectX Diagnostic Tool window opens, select the Display tab. In the Device section of the Display tab, the name of the display adapter driver being used is displayed next to Name: . If the name is Microsoft Basic Display Adapter , then the generic Microsoft Basic Display Adapter driver is being used instead of a manufacturer specific driver. Microsoft recommends updating to the manufacturer specific display adapter driver. For more information, see the section Update the Microsoft Basic Display Adapter to use the manufacturer's display adapter driver in this article. Note If there are multiple Display tabs in the DirectX Diagnostic Tool , it's possible that the Windows device might have multiple display adapters. Each Display tab represents a different display adapter. Check each Display tab to determine what driver each display adapter is using. It's possible that some display adapters are using the manufacturer's driver, while are using the generic Microsoft Basic Display Adapter driver. Update the Microsoft Basic Display Adapter to use the manufacture's display adapter driver When the Microsoft Basic Display Adapter driver is being used by a display adapter, Microsoft recommends updating it to instead use the manufacture's driver. For instructions on how to update the display adapter driver, see the article Update drivers manually in Windows which contains the following instructions: How to update drivers automatically using Windows Update . This option should be attempted first. How to update drivers manually using drivers downloaded from the manufacturer's website. This option should be attempted if there are no drivers available via Windows Update but are available at the manufacturer's website. If the following two conditions apply: The hardware manufacturer doesn't provide Windows drivers for the display adapter Windows Update doesn't have any drivers for the display adapter Then the following are the two available options: Keep using the generic Microsoft Basic Display Adapter. If the Windows device has the capability of the video card being upgraded, then upgrade to a video card that has Windows display adapter drivers. Was this information helpful? Yes No Thank you! Any more feedback for Microsoft? Can you help us improve? (Send feedback to Microsoft so we can help.) What affected your experience? Resolved my issue Clear instructions Easy to follow No jargon Pictures helped Other Didn't match my screen Incorrect instructions Too technical Not enough information Not enough pictures Other Any additional feedback? (Optional) Submit feedback By pressing submit, your feedback will be used to improve Microsoft products and services. Your IT admin will be able to collect this data. Privacy Statement. Thank you for your feedback! × What's new Surface Pro Surface Laptop Surface Laptop Ultra Surface RTX Spark Dev Box Explore Copilot Explore Microsoft products Windows 11 apps Microsoft Store Account profile Download Center Microsoft Store support Returns Order tracking Certified Refurbished Microsoft Store Promise Flexible Payments Education Microsoft in education Devices for education Microsoft Teams for Education Microsoft 365 Education How to buy for your school Educator training and development Deals for students and parents AI for education Business Microsoft AI Microsoft Security Dynamics 365 Microsoft 365 Microsoft Power Platform Microsoft Teams Microsoft Copilot Small Business Developer & IT Azure Microsoft Developer Microsoft Learn Support for AI marketplace apps Microsoft Tech Community Microsoft Marketplace Software companies Visual Studio Company Careers About Microsoft Company news Privacy at Microsoft Investors Diversity and inclusion Accessibility Sustainability English (United States) Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Your Privacy Choices Opt-Out Icon Your Privacy Choices Consumer Health Privacy Sitemap Contact Microsoft Privacy Manage cookies Terms of use Trademarks Safety & eco Recycling About our ads © Microsoft 2026