Gaming
Guide
MMORPG
Service
0
0
Aion 2: Macro – This trick instantly increases your damage while you only hold down 2 keys
Karsten Scholz
30. September 2026
Reading time
4				minutes
Add MeinMMO to your Google favorites
Aion 2
offers a very fast action combat system, where you can trigger multiple skills with just one key. MeinMMO has a trick for you that not only simplifies the battles further but also increases damage.
What is this trick?
You probably already know that you can link multiple attacks with one slot in your skill menu in Aion 2. You stack these like a tower and process the attacks one by one by pressing a key. The ability at the bottom has the highest priority, followed by the skill above it, and so on.
That’s already quite convenient, but has two disadvantages:
You have to manually press the corresponding key over and over again
Your spam attack without cooldown cannot be optimally interwoven between the active skills with cooldown this way
Our trick addresses exactly these two disadvantages! To do this, you first need to define a key for “Ability-Macro” in the options under “Key Settings” / “General” / “Gameplay”, for example, the right mouse button.
Here you can define the key assignment for your macro in the options.
Then switch to the skill menu and select “Ability-Macros” in the top right (above your active skills). Click on “Add Macro”, then on the symbol and finally select a slot in the skill bar that you’ve already linked multiple skills to.
Now, when you press your macro key, for example the right mouse button, you will again process the skills from bottom to top.
The new advantage of the macro
: You don’t have to press the key repeatedly but can simply hold it down. Additionally, you can add more skills to the macro in other slots of the skill bar.
The macro feature is quite inconspicuous but helps tremendously if you want to deal high damage in Aion 2.
How does this lead to more damage?
To maximize damage in Aion 2, you actually need to deal with interrupting skill animations and incorporating the basic attack into the rotation. It sounds like pro gameplay for minmaxers, but with macros, it can be easily implemented by any casual player.
You perform the animation interrupt through your basic attack, which you activate by default with the left mouse button. The only thing you need to know now is that you can actually use both your basic attack and your macro simultaneously by simply holding both keys down at the same time!
In this case, your character processes the basic skill priorities of the macro, but continually weaves your basic attack in between. This leads to higher damage, even though you are only holding down two keys.
DO NOT MAKE THIS MISTAKE!
Theoretically, you could pack the basic attack directly into the macro and just hold one key. However, this ultimately results in damage loss since the game will less frequently integrate the basic attack into the automated attack sequence. The most efficient animation interrupts are only achieved when you trigger your basic attack separately with the left mouse button.
What this looks like in video form is shown to you by
YouTuber Grobs in his guide
, feel free to check it out.
Start video
Aion 2 starts today in the first stress test – These 26 things you should know about playing
Autoplay
How to set up a macro for beginners
What should be included in my macro?
Your macro should include all skills that you want to use as often as possible, not situationally. Factors such as your attack speed, cooldowns of skills, and skill levels determine how efficient your macro will ultimately be.
Therefore, focus at first on one or at most two macros
, and only include skills that you want to use immediately as soon as they are ready.
The skill with the highest priority goes at the very bottom. Above it follows the second most important skill, then the third most important, and finally the fourth most important skill.
IMPORTANT:
Do not place skills without cooldown in the lower slots. If you do so, none of the skills above will ever be used, as the game will continuously use the higher prioritized attack without cooldown.
With the right positioning, you can use your strongest skills with cooldown as soon as they are ready. When all cooldowns are running, your basic attack and the second spam attack from position 3 or 4 will alternate until the next cooldown has expired. Thanks to the macro, you can go through this rotation infinitely long by simply holding down the left mouse button and the macro key. It couldn’t be simpler.
Macro examples for all classes can be found below:
Grobs has already spent a lot of time with Aion 2 and
recommended starter macros for all classes on YouTube
. This way, you can easily recreate them and achieve a noticeable DPS boost early on.
All other skills, such as mobility maneuvers, important buffs/debuffs, or emergency spells, should be assigned to separate hotkeys so you can use them specifically when needed. These situational abilities would only clutter up any macro unnecessarily and degrade its efficiency.
More about Aion 2:
Aion 2: Servers for Europe – All info on launch, matchmaking, transfer, and market
von Karsten Scholz
Aion 2: Twitch Drops – All Rewards and How You Can Get Them
von Alexander Mehrwald
What do you think of the skill system of the game? Did this guide help you? Do you have any further tips for using macros or regarding damage maximization? Feel free to tell us in the comments! You can find all further general information about the new MMORPG from NCSoft here:
Release, beta, platforms, classes, and more in the overview of Aion 2
This is an AI-powered translation. Some inaccuracies might exist.
Your opinion is important to us!
Do you like the article? Then let us know!
I like it!
Comment
Also interesting
Fallout 76 continues into 2027, shows roadmap that takes you back to a legendary game
Niko Hernes
1 day ago
4 min
0
0
Monopoly GO: All free dice in October 2026 – The new codes of today
Cedric Holmeier
1 day ago
3 min
4
682
Monopoly GO Events – Everything about the current ones in October 2026
Cedric Holmeier
1 day ago
2 min
0
308
Helldivers Movie: Release, Source, Director – All Information about the Film Adaptation of the Coop Shooter
Niko Hernes
1 day ago
2 min
0
0
Aion 2: Servers for Europe – All info on launch, matchmaking, transfer, and market
Karsten Scholz
1 day ago
3 min
0
1
Show more