Docs
Download
Licensing
Windows 11
WinPcap
Npcap
Library
Networking Library
Microsoft Windows 11
Microsoft Windows 10
Microsoft Windows Server 2019
Microsoft Windows Server 2016
Microsoft Windows 8.1
Microsoft Windows Server 2012 R2
Microsoft Windows 8
Microsoft Windows Server 2012
Microsoft Windows 7
Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2
Download Npcap
Npcap License
Npcap Changelog
1.89
2026-09-12
Packet capture library for Windows
Npcap is the Nmap Project's packet capture (and sending) library
for Microsoft Windows. It implements the
open
Pcap API
using a
custom Windows kernel driver alongside our Windows build
of
the excellent libpcap
library
.  This allows Windows software to capture raw network
traffic (including wireless networks, wired ethernet, localhost
traffic, and many VPNs) using a simple, portable API.  Npcap
allows for sending raw packets as well.  Mac and Linux systems already
include the Pcap API, so Npcap allows popular software such
as
Nmap
and
Wireshark
to run on all
these platforms (and more) with a single codebase.  Npcap began in
2013 as some improvements to the (now discontinued) WinPcap library,
but has been largely rewritten since then
with
hundreds of releases
improving Npcap's speed, portability, security, and efficiency. In
particular, Npcap now offers:
Loopback Packet Capture and Injection
: Npcap is able to sniff loopback packets
  (transmissions between services on the same machine) by using the
Windows Filtering Platform (WFP)
. After installation, Npcap supplies an
  interface named
NPF_Loopback
, with the description “Adapter for loopback capture”.
  Wireshark users can choose this adapter to capture all loopback traffic the same way as other non-loopback adapters. Packet injection works as well with the
pcap_inject() function
.
Support for all Current Windows Releases
: Npcap supports all versions of Windows and Windows Server that
Microsoft themselves still support.  To avoid limiting ourselves just to the features and API's of our oldest supported
Windows release, we build and ship drivers for each major platform generation.  That way we can use all of Microsoft's
latest technology in our Win10 driver while still supporting legacy systems. Npcap works on Windows 7 and later by
making use of the
NDIS 6 Light-Weight Filter (LWF)
API. It's faster than the deprecated
NDIS 5
API used by WinPcap. Also, the driver is signed with
    our EV certificate and countersigned by Microsoft so that it works
    even with the stricter driver signing requirements imposed by
    Windows 10. We don't know exactly when Microsoft will remove NDIS
    5 or cease the grandfathering of older less secure driver
    signatures, but WinPcap will cease working when that happens.
Libpcap API
: Npcap uses the
  excellent
Libpcap library
,
  enabling Windows applications to use a portable packet capturing API
  that is also supported on Linux and MacOS.  While WinPcap was
  based on LibPcap 1.0.0 from 2009, Npcap includes the latest Libpcap
  release along with all of the improvements we contribute back
  upstream to them.
Support for all Windows architectures (x86, x86-64, and
  ARM)
: Npcap has always supported both Windows 64-bit and 32-bit
  Intel x86 platforms. But starting with version 1.50 we also support
  the
  new
Windows
  on ARM architecture
! This allows PC's to use the same
  power-efficient mobile chipsets as smartphones for all-day battery
  life and always-on LTE connectivity.  Users can now run apps
  like
Nmap
and
Wireshark
on a new generation of devices like
  the
Microsoft
  Surface Pro X tablet
and
  the
Samsung
  Galaxy Book Go laptop
.
Extra Security
: Npcap can (optionally) be restricted so that only
  Administrators can sniff packets. If a non-Admin user tries to utilize
  Npcap through software such as
Nmap
or
Wireshark
, the user will have to pass a
User Account Control (UAC)
dialog to utilize the driver.  This is
  conceptually similar to UNIX, where root access is generally required to
  capture packets.  We've also enabled the Windows ASLR and DEP security
  features and signed the driver, DLLs, and executables to prevent tampering.
WinPcap compatibility
: Software written for WinPcap is
  generally source-code compatible with WinPcap so it simply needs to
  be recompiled with the Npcap SDK to receive all of Npcap's
  performance, compatability, and security benefits. In fact there is
  even some binary compatability—software compiled with the
  WinPcap SDK often still works with modern Npcap.  We don't suggest
  relying on that, however, since compilers and other stack technology
  has changed dramatically since the last WinPcap SDK release in 2013.
  When porting legacy WinPcap software to Npcap, we do
  suggest
a
  few minor changes
, mostly to ensure your software uses Npcap in
  preference to WinPcap on systems with both libraries installed. By
  default Npcap replaces any old WinPcap software installs with its
  own drivers, but you can install both by unchecking Npcap's
  “WinPcap Compatible Mode.” installer option.
Raw (monitor mode) 802.11 wireless capture
: Npcap can be configured to read raw 802.11 traffic, including radiotap header details, and this functionality is directly supported by Wireshark.  More details
can be found here
.
Many more details about Npcap are available in the
Npcap User/Developer Guide
.  We've also created a
feature comparison between Npcap and WinPcap
.
Downloading and Installing Npcap Free Edition
The free version of Npcap may be used (but not externally
  redistributed) on up to 5 systems (
free license details
).  It may also be used on unlimited systems where it is only used
  with
Nmap
,
Wireshark
, and/or
Microsoft Defender for Identity
. Simply
  run the executable installer.  The full source code for each release
  is available, and developers can build their apps against the SDK.
  The improvements for each release are documented in
  the
Npcap
  Changelog
.
Npcap 1.89 installer
for Windows 7/2008R2, 8/2012, 8.1/2012R2, 10/2016, 2019, 11 (x86, x64, and ARM64).
Npcap SDK 1.16
(ZIP).
Npcap 1.89 debug symbols
(ZIP).
Npcap 1.89 source code
(ZIP).
The latest development source is in our
Github source repository
.
Windows XP and earlier are not supported; you can use
WinPcap
for these versions.
Npcap OEM for Commercial Use and Redistribution
We fund the Npcap project by selling Npcap OEM.  This special version of Npcap includes enterprise features such as the silent installer and commercial support as well as special license rights allowing customers to redistribute Npcap with their products or to install it on more systems within their organization with easy enterprise deployment.  The
Npcap free license
only allows five installs (with a few exceptions) and does not allow for any redistribution.  We offer two commercial license types:
Npcap OEM Redistribution License
: The redistribution license is for companies that wish to distribute Npcap OEM within their products (the free Npcap edition
does not allow this
). Licensees generally use the Npcap OEM silent installer, ensuring a seamless experience for end users. Licensees may choose between a perpetual unlimited license or an annual term license, along with options for commercial support and updates. [
Redistribution license details
]
Npcap OEM Internal-Use License
: The corporate internal license is for organizations that wish to use Npcap OEM internally, without redistribution outside their organization.  This allows them to bypass the
5-system usage cap
of the Npcap free edition. It includes commercial support and update options, and provides the extra Npcap OEM features such as the silent installer for enterprise-wide deployment. [
Internal-use license details
]
Documentation
The primary documentation for Npcap is the
Npcap User's Guide
. You can also refer to the
README file
on Github.  The changes in each new release are documented in the
Npcap Changelog
.
Patches, Bug Reports, Questions, Suggestions, etc
Npcap bug reports can be filed on the
Npcap Issues Tracker
. Please test with the latest version of Npcap first to ensure it hasn't already been fixed.  It is also helpful if you search the current issues first to find out if it has already been reported.  Then you can leave a comment on the existing issue rather than creating duplicates.  Feature enhancement requests can be made on the tracker as well
Questions, comments and bug reports are always welcome. One option is the Nmap
development mailing list (nmap-dev). To subscribe, please visit:
http://nmap.org/mailman/listinfo/dev
.
Code patches to fix bugs are even better than bug reports. Instructions for
creating patch files and sending them are
available here.
Bug reports for Npcap can also be filed on the
Npcap bug tracker
.